Ahron Daum: "Das aschkenasische Rabbinat : Studien über Glaube und Schicksal" (Julius Carlebach) / Die Rolle des Rabbiners in Deutschland heute (Ahron Daum) Die Feiertage Israels, Die jüdischen Feiertage in er Sicht der Tradition (Herchen Verlag, Frankfurt am Main, vol. I, 1993, p. 556, vol. II, 1994, p. 557) He is the author of two books. His first book "Halacha aktuell" is a two-volume work, written in German, which treats Halachic problems and issues of current interest as they appear in the Halachic literature and more specifically the Responsa. This work is unique in that it was the first book written in German during the post-war period that comprehensively deals with Halachic issues in the Responsa literature. It was therefore welcomed with great enthusiasm in the Halachic world and received approbations from many distinguished Halachic authorities. Certain articles from this book were written in Rabbinic Hebrew and were later separately published under the title "Iyunim b’Halacha". His intensive religious training began at age 13 in the famous Lithuanian-Chassidic “Ruzhin” Yeshiva in Bnei Brak. At age 14, he left for the UK where he continued his studies at the Yeshiva Ha-Rama and later on moved to the well-known Zionistic Yeshiva Etz Chaim in Montreux, Switzerland. In 1975, after obtaining his Baccalaureate Degree in Switzerland, he went to Jews’ College, University of London, where he obtained a bachelor's degree in Jewish Studies (with Honours). From 1978 he attended the Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary (RIETS '82) of Yeshiva University, New York City where he obtained a master's degree in Biblical Studies (with Honours) and his rabbinical ordination personally signed and handed by Rabbi Joseph Soloveitchik. Declining the offer to continue his studies in order to obtain the title of Dayan, he returned to Europe where he married Francine Frenkel with whom he has three daughters. He speaks Hebrew, English, German, French, Dutch and Yiddish and has a passive knowledge of Aramaic and Latin. In 1993, for family reasons, he resigned from his post as Chief Rabbi and moved to Antwerp, Belgium, where the largest part of his family already lived. There he started to teach Judaism within the state school system and in Jewish day schools. In 1995 he accepted a position as lecturer in Jewish Law at the Faculty for Comparative Religion in Wilrijk (Antwerp), Belgium. In recognition of his teaching there and his works on Halacha the Faculty awarded him a Professorship Honoris Causa in Jewish Law. Since 2001 he also started, along with his wife, a series of outreach projects for Baalei Tshuva, non-Jews interested in Jewish studies and prospective converts to Judaism. Today this takes up most of his time and efforts and as part of these outreach activities he regularly organizes, in cooperation with the Netherlands-based Shalom Centre, study days on various topics within the field of Jewish studies.
