Dakshineswar Kali Temple: Profoundly affected by the dream, Rani immediately looked for and purchased a 30,000-acred plot in the village of Dakhineswar. The large temple complex was built between 1845 and 1888. The 20-acre (81,000 m2) plot was bought from an Englishman, Jake Hastie and was then popularly known as Saheban Bagicha, partly old Muslim burial ground shaped like a tortoise, considered befitting for the worship of Shakti according to Tantra traditions, it took eight years and nine hundred thousand rupees to complete the construction, and finally the idol of Goddess Kali was installed on the Snana Yatra day on 31 May 1855, amid festivities at the temple formally known as Sri Sri Jagadishwari Mahakali, with Ramkumar Chhattopadhyay as the head priest; soon his younger brother Gadai or Gadadhar (later known as Ramakrishna) moved in and so did nephew Hriday to assist him. On 31 May 1855 more than 1 lakh (one hundred thousand) Brahmins were invited from different parts of the country to grace the auspicious occasion. The next year, Ramkumar Chattopadhyay died, the position was given to Ramakrishna, along with his wife Sarada Devi, who stayed in the south side of the Nahabat (music room), in a small room on the ground floor, which now a shrine dedicated to her.Ramakrishna was responsible for bringing much in the way of both fame and pilgrims to the temple.Rani Rashmoni lived only for five years and nine months after the inauguration of the temple. She fell seriously ill in 1861. Realizing that her death was near she decided to handover the property she purchased in Dinajpur (now in Bangladesh) as a legacy for the maintenance of the temple to the temple trust. She accomplished her task on 18 February 1861 and died on the next day. After her death in 1861, her sons-in-law took to celebrating Durga Puja in their respective premises.
