2018 Pacific hurricane season: Hurricane Norman originated from a broad area of low pressure that formed several hundred miles south-southwest of Acapulco, Mexico on August 25. Traveling west-northwest, the system coalesced into a tropical depression by at 15:00 UTC on August 28 while situated approximately 420 miles (675 km) south-southwest of the southern tip of Baja California. A subtropical ridge steered the system west for several days. Early on August 29, the depression intensified into a tropical storm and received the name Norman. Favorable environmental conditions enabled quick intensification, and the system achieved hurricane strength early on August 30. Rapid intensification ensued throughout the day, culminating with Norman attaining its peak intensity at 15:00 UTC, with sustained winds of 150 mph (240 km/h) and a central pressure of 937 mbar (27.67 inHg). During a 24-hour period, the hurricane's winds increased by 80 mph (130 km/h), the largest such increase since Hurricane Patricia in 2015.The combination of an eyewall replacement cycle and increasing wind shear induced weakening beginning on August 31. At 03:00 UTC on August 31, Norman turned to the west-southwest due to a deep-layer ridge to the north. Norman fell to Category 2 status for a period, before unexpectedly rapidly intensifying back to a Category 4 hurricane on September 2. The storm attained a secondary peak with winds of 140 mph (235 km/h) and a pressure of 947 mbar (28.00 inHg). Initially proving resilient to adverse conditions, Norman succumbed to increasing wind shear and lower sea surface temperatures on September 3. Its central dense overcast warmed and its eye filled. At the same time, Norman took a turn to a more westerly direction. On September 4, the hurricane crossed west of 140°W, and warning responsibility shifted to the Central Pacific Hurricane Center (CPHC). On the next day, another bout of unexpected intensification ensued and Norman regained major hurricane status. However, wind shear increased once again thereafter, and Norman weakened into a Category 1 hurricane on September 6. On September 7, Norman weakened further to a tropical storm as it began to lose its tropical characteristics. The CPHC issued its final advisory on Norman at 21:00 UTC on September 8, as it was rapidly becoming extratropical; Norman subsequently completed its extratropical transition on the next day. On August 29, an upper-level low absorbed the remnants of Hurricane Lane to the west-northwest of Hawaii. The storm was assigned the designation 96C by the United States Naval Research Laboratory (NRL). Traversing an area with sea surface temperatures 2 °C (3.6 °F) above-normal, the system coalesced into a subtropical storm by August 31. On September 2, the system reached its peak intensity and began to display an eye. Afterward, the system gradually began to weaken, while accelerating northward into colder waters. On September 3, the system weakened below tropical depression intensity, back into an extratropical low. On September 4, the system was absorbed by a larger extratropical storm in the Bering Sea.
